##Syntax Analyzer Usage Guide

This syntax analyzer consists of a Lex file (new.l) and a Yacc file (m.y)(it also includes lex.yy.c,y.tab.c,y.tab.h, and also a sample groovy codelex new.l). Here's how to compile and run it:

##Prerequisites
   * Ensure you have Flex (Lex) and Bison (Yacc) installed on your system.
   * A "C compiler" (like GCC) to compile the generated C code.

##Compilation

 1. Compile the Lex file to generate the C code:
    
    prompt to run is:
    
    lex new.l
    
     (This command generates lex.yy.c, which is the C source code for the lexical analyzer.lex new.l: This command invokes the Lex (or Flex) tool to generate a lexical analyzer in C from the Lex file new.l. Lex files contain rules that define how to recognize and tokenize input text. When you run this command, Lex generates a C file named lex.yy.c, which contains the code for the lexical analyzer.)
  
 2. Compile the Yacc (Bison) file to generate the C code:
     
     prompt to run is:
     
     yacc -d m.y
     
     (This will generate parser.tab.c and parser.tab.h files.yacc -d m.y: This command invokes the Yacc (or Bison) tool to generate a parser in C from the Yacc file m.y. Yacc files contain rules that define the syntax and semantics of a programming language or other formal language. The -d flag instructs Yacc to generate a header file (y.tab.h) along with the parser. When you run this command, Yacc generates two files: y.tab.c, which contains the code for the parser, and y.tab.h, which contains declarations for various symbols used by the parser.)
     
3. compile c files into executable program
 
     prompt to run is:

     gcc -o my_program lex.yy.c y.tab.c -ll

(gcc lex.yy.c y.tab.c: This command compiles the generated C files lex.yy.c and y.tab.c into an executable program. gcc is the GNU Compiler Collection, which is used to compile C programs. By passing the filenames lex.yy.c and y.tab.c to gcc, it compiles them into an executable program named a.out by default.)

4. runs the compiled executable program 
   
   prompt to run is:

   ./my_program <inputfile (o.groovy)
   
   (This command runs the compiled executable program a.out, passing groovy.txt as an argument. The program likely performs some operation on the input file groovy.txt using the lexical analyzer and parser generated by Lex and Yacc. The specific behavior of the program depends on the implementation of the Lex and Yacc files and their interaction with the input file.)
5. to stop the code STOP added that identifies that the cade has completed


   
   
## REFERENCES
## for the keywords of groovy : https://docs.oracle.com/cloud/latest/big-data-discovery-cloud/BDDDE/rsu_transform_unsupported_features.htm#BDDDE-reference_B4D419B4A7634CDD8E312D3AF68F8277
## for the lex file : tutorial files
## for the yacc file :tutrial files, handson sheets and chat gpt
## for the groovy file :google , chat gpt


